At the neurological level, the vertebral plexuses are essentially composed of 4-5 parts.
You have what is called the deep medullary system,
the internal vertebral venous system between the dura mater and the dural sinus,
and then the external vertebral venous plexus.
We also have the diploic and emissary systems, which are even more specific to the
cranium.
You have a medullary plexus, you also have a whole internal plexus here.
And that's very interesting, it's a whole network, especially the pterygoid sinus,
here, which is a phase of congestion.
You have to learn to free up this system.
It's a valve, it's like there's an engorgement.
So when you have chronic neck pain or someone comes in with acute torticollis, these
are often venous compressions.
You look at a cross-section of a nerve, the perineurium, the endoneurium, the epineurium.
Inside, in this cross-section of a nerve, we find ourselves.
with small vessels inside and it is these that can congest
and compress the system
neuronal, neurological. So we have a role where we can decongest that, a
discopathy.
In fact, these are stases, they release cytokines, they release an acidity that begins
to destroy the system, rebalance the pressures. This is also the dural sinus,
it's in continuity with the vertebral plexus. The sacrum can relieve your pain.
as all this venous blood comes to collect in what is called the superior sagittal sinus
superior
inferior sagittal and straight and transverse sinuses as
if it were collecting there, that's why
it's also related to something very interesting
At the level of my fourth ventricle, it's the foramen of Magendie.
And what is it?
It's the opening, it's almost a pulsation that we will find with the
CSF system.
By releasing Ignon, by releasing from the periphery to the depth
all this system,
you will reopen all vascular fields and redrain the entire vascular system as well.
Entry point, carotid, vertebral artery, exit point.
all this drainage of the sinuses via the vertebral plexus.
It is therefore a free sacrum.
The pelvic veins and those of the lower limbs are a functional unit.
This means that an imbalance in my lower limbs,
feet, knees, pelvis here, affects the urogenital system.
I'll give an example.
Every time I walk, I do a drainage with the sole of the foot.
I have a kind of diaphragm underneath called the navicular-cuboid articulation.
The first thing we do to check for small pelvic disorders in women,
we're going to check the foot.
We're going to free up the foot, as best we can, so that we have this
return force again.
Otherwise, it causes stasis.
There are women who come with lower limb pain.
In fact, if it's inside the nerve, you'll have to think about checking
the system.
system if it's not erogenous.
This is also, as we discussed, certain collateral pathways are only the reappearance
of a circulatory state observed in the fetus and which regresses under physiological
conditions.
In a uterine retroversion, you often have congestions that occur, beware, there
is actually a poverty of valves which means there is circulation in both
directions, you remember, I explained to you that there was this venous circulation
that could change.
It took other directions. I go this way, but here I have congestion, I go back
that way.
And I can stagnate, I can create local congestion spaces, prostate,
etc.
These are congestions they will cause and I can go back on another path.
Abdominal pressure influences the path of venous blood, as I just said.
So when abdominal pressure increases, what happens?
It will go towards what? Towards the vertebral plexuses.
So, vertebral congestion, low back pain, you have low back pain of digestive origin.
Often, people come to you, but they haven't carried anything, they're stuck.
In fact, you have to restore the pressures to relieve the liver, to restore the dynamic balance
here.
Disorders of venous circulation would be the cause of deep, persistent dyspareunia,
persistent.
the hours following intercourse, dysmenorrhea, constipation,
tenesmus, general
weakness, asthenia, depressive tendencies and emotional
irritability.
Look at all that it can cause.
The big key is the diaphragmatic pump, both
vascular, arterial
and also...
Fatigue?
The development of the vascular system has the consequence that there is blood pressure that will occur.
I have the capillary system.
At some point, there's this pressure.
And in fact, it will create the exudates.
It's the intercellular network.
And this network will create new trajectories,
essentially purely longitudinal trajectories
here,
with a very important network.
important that we call the cisterna chyli or cisterna of Pecquet, with especially
a large
resorption at the level of the left subclavian. The psoas, with the perirenal
fascia,
drain up to 1.5 liters of lymph per day through these movements. The
psoas, it actually corresponds
to an organ that is quite thick and can absorb toxins. That's why I
can lock myself
because of my life.
Psoas, it's a toxic overload that doesn't release from my peritoneum
and which then flows into my venous system and then into my lymphatic system.
And I can't drain.
And you have a small muscle that looks similar at the back of the neck.
Psoas, the levator scapulae.
It's really like... It's thick like that.
If you say so, it's because it inserts in the same way and it comes to lie down like that.
It's a thick muscle like that.
It's also a muscle that absorbs toxicity.
Don't forget that...
I consider that there are seven diaphragms, the feet, the knees, the small
pelvis, thoraco here,
Simpson, cerebellum and all the balance with the base of the skull, and then my parietals here.
It's important, why? Because here, what do I have above? I have a space
of the most important drainage for the CSF system, resorption. Your
parietals must breathe,
they are solar panels, they must take in light.
The radii are solar bones.
Then, we will reintegrate all of that with the brain, with the different links that
we have seen.
We will finally reintegrate that with the vitelline system, the umbilical system, the apical shock, to
also free up the brain.